Mystvearn: You are
all worthless.
Nothing more than
vermin to the Dark King.
There will be no surrender.
So. I will erase this kingdom,
then your entire species!
Now, for the final
gasp of humanity.
My king sends his regards.
Crocodine: The Shadow Legion.
Akhim: Here they come...
Popp: Vermin?!
Surrender won't be allowed?
Who is he to call
anyone garbage!
Well - I'll show him!
That does it!
Hey, wait! I'm coming, too.
Leona, when you get
the chance, run!
Please, be careful-
we need you two!
Chiu: Uh, what about me?!
Then it is decided.
Huh?
I will ensure that
Miss Maam and Popp are safe!
Well, thank you?
Popp, calm down!
We're not going to beat
this guy if we lose control!
I know, Maam... but that kind
of talk gets under my skin!
How dare he?!
I'm gonna show
him that we humans
aren't as weak as he thinks.
But, Popp...
Akhim: Curse them!
You get behind me.
But, you...
You're the one that
was injured rescuing me.
What'd you think of that?
Are you some kind
of immortal?!
Popp: Crocodine's
surrounded.
I'll go down and help them!
Uh, hang on-
I thought your
Refractor Fist attack
only worked on
living creatures?
Will it even
work on those things?
For enemies like these...
I have brute force!
Popp: Well - I guess I won't
be teasing her anytime soon.
Alright.
You're up against me,
you big dumb giant.
Let's see how
you deal with this!
Boom!
Yeah, there.
That should do some
serious damage.
O-kay, that wasn't...
[alarmed yelp]
Mystvearn: Puny little fly.
Miasmas, deal with him.
I'm pretty sure Master said
these drain your magic!
Fizzle!
Are you kidding me?!
Dai [thought]: Hurry.
Hurry up and finish it!
Lon: Dai.
Relax yourself.
Your agitation is going
to affect the sword.
Don't worry.
Once this is complete,
there's no enemy in the world
you won't be able
to go up against.
Trust me.
Trust the power of this sword.
And trust that Jank's son and
the others can hold their own.
Right!
Dai [thought]: I'm
counting on you, Popp, Maam,
and everyone in Papnica.
I'll be there soon!
Sizzle!
You're not gonna...
Take us all down...
so easily.
Hang in there, Miss Maam.
The gallant Chiu is on
his way to help save the day!
Just hold on!
I, Baduck, Papnica's
greatest Inventor slash
Swordsman, am coming
to save the day!
Both [thought]: Who
does he think he is?!
Popp [thought]:
There's too many.
If I want to take
them all out...
Matoriv: Popp, I heard you used
the Five Finger Flares spell.
Uh, yeah. I mean, kind of.
Never use it again.
H-Huh? Why not, mentor?
It's practically
Forbidden Magic.
Only a being with no regard
for it's life would use it.
That kind of magic will shorten
a regular human lifespan.
Matoriv: I know it
was for your friends,
but if you keep
that sort of thing up-
Mentor!
Are you...
Why didn't...
Why didn't you say anything?
Matoriv: It won't
be long now.
Shortened as it is, a hundred
years is still too many.
Considering how
few Avan and Roka got.
Matoriv: Listen, Popp...
Matoriv: You're still young.
Don't worry. In time, you'll
learn many powerful spells.
Do you understand?
Akhim: What an army...
Crocodine: Don't stop.
Show an opening and
they'll take it.
Both: Help is here!
Look out, Chiu!
Crocodine [thought]: Hmm.
That little one has spirit.
Everyone...
Matoriv: Don't worry.
In time, you'll learn
many powerful spells.
Popp: In time...
In time...
By then it's too late.
I need it right now, Mentor.
Five-Finger Flares!
Holy cow! When did
he learn that one?!
Nice, Popp...
We have to keep it up.
Here we go, guys!
Right.
Now, Vortex Axe!
Popp: Everybody...
Scatter!
Boom!
Hey, there. I got them all.
P-Popp! You okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
Just a little burnt out.
Now... all that's
left is that colossus.
Mystvearn: [pleased chuckle]
[laughing]
No - what?!
Mystvearn: Did you
fools think it was over?
My Shadow Legion
is an immortal force.
So long as they
have Dark Aura,
they will continue
to resurrect...
And within Sovereign
Rock Castle's chest,
the Lung Chamber,
my Armored Warriors
are provided with
a constant stream
of Dark Aura.
Crocodine: The Lung Chamber?
That's right.
The forbidden wing of
Sovereign Rock Castle.
So that means their army...
...will keep coming back.
Baduck: W-What do we do?!
Popp: I... I don't know...
This... might be
the end of us!
Crocodine: But - how?!
Hyunckel: You
disappoint me, Popp.
I thought you were
a Disciple of Avan.
He'd hate to hear you whine
about enemies like these.
We just have to
defeat them all-
Until they realize there's
no point in coming back.
Hyunckel!
Look who it is.
It was getting
a bit too noisy
to focus on my
training, you see.
So I came to silence them.
Popp [thought]:
Oh, brother...
What a show-off.
And of course he'd show up
at the exact right time.
Chiu [thought]:
Another strange guy...
Maybe I have more competition
for Miss Maam than I thought.
Hyunckel.
Hyunckel: Good to
see you back, Maam.
But we can reminisce after
we defeat that behemoth.
Mystvearn:
[delighted laughter]
Mystvearn: I see you are still
absorbed in your ego, Hyunckel.
Why don't you come
down here, Mystvearn?
You know you're going to
lose no matter what you try.
It'll save us all some time.
Mystvearn: You never understood
the power of my Shadow Legion...
and the terrors that live
within Sovereign Rock Castle.
That's the armor
he gave Flazzard!
Mystvearn: Go forth,
Armored Warriors!
Crocodine: Three of them...
Hyunckel: Stand back.
Maam: Huh? But, you can't!
I thought you had only
just begun your training.
Hyunckel: The essence of Avan
Style isn't about the weapon.
Once mastered,
the basics of Earth, Sea
and Air are easily applied.
Hyunckel: Babysit Popp for me.
Popp: Babysit?! You
all heard that, right?
L-look out! They're
coming this way!
Unleash... Earth Strike!
Look out!
Popp: He's fast.
That first attack
was Earth Strike,
a powerful move
comparable to Earth Slash.
And the second...
was the Avan Style Spear
Technique's fastest...
The Wave Strike.
Hyunckel: It hardly
bears mentioning,
but the strongest
attack I have...
Is powerful no matter
what kind of weapon I use.
I know that stance...
Bloody Scryde!
Amazing, Hyunckel!
Crocodine: He easily
destroyed the enemies
that we were struggling with!
Ugh, all right...
Never tell him I said this,
but he really is a genius.
Oh, that's... Grand Cross!
Hyunckel: Enough
with the games.
Come out, or I'll demolish
the castle with you in it!
Why did it stop?
Right - I've got
you now, Mystvearn!
All of you get back.
Popp: Don't be stupid.
Give someone else
a chance to show off!
I said to get back.
What is his problem?
Forgive him, Popp.
Mystvearn himself taught
Hyunckel the Dark Technique
back when he was in
the Dark Army.
What?!
Crocodine: If Avan
is his Master of Light,
Mystvearn is his
Master of Darkness.
This is a battle between
a teacher and their student.
For Hyunckel, this could
settle his own dark past.
Looks like you're
finally ready to fight me.
Huh, Mystvearn?
Mystvearn: Let me
make one thing clear.
Your pitiful attack
wouldn't have put
a scratch in
this moving fortress.
I am here because
I choose to be.
You betrayed
the Dark Army and
embarrassed me in
front of King Vearn.
I intend to
punish you myself.
You've become quite
the talker, haven't you?
Even back when you
were training me,
you barely said this much.
I'm not offended or anything.
'Cause I'm going to make
you like you used to be.
Once I destroy you...
you'll be quiet forever!
Mystvearn: Not with
your strength, child.
Hyunckel: You run from me?
His attacks are even faster.
Get him! Do it!
Hyunckel [thought]: What
was that? What did he do?!
Mystvearn: Such hastily
learned spear technique
cannot match my savage blow.
You're about to find out-
How "hasty" can feel!
Avan Style Spear
Technique, Wave Strike!
Mystvearn: Byut
Deathstringer!
Hyunckel [thought]:
His finger...
A rapidly moving steel claw...
Not fast enough!
Mystvearn: Fool.
This attack can be done
with any of my fingers.
Mystvearn: This...
This is...
I know that one!
Dark Puppetry Aura Hand!
As a skill of darkness, I never
intended to use this again.
But it'll make a
fitting end for you.
The skill you taught me
will be your undoing.
That's good. Now turn your
claw back on yourself.
Do it!
[gasps]
W-What?
Im...possible!
Hyunckel, no!
Hyunckel: This can't be...
My... My Dark Puppetry
Aura Hand is perfect.
You've said yourself
that it surpasses yours!
Mystvearn: I thought it did.
But you're weaker
now than when you were
the Undead Legion Commander.
What? How?!
Mystvearn: Having
sided with justice,
your Dark Aura is
not what it once was!
[pained howl]
What... are you?
Mystvearn: Did your father
never give you a toy?
Hyunckel: What?!
Mystvearn: It's time you learned
what happens to broken toys.
Hyunckel!
M-Maam?!
Maam, no!
Hyunckel: Y-you fool...
That was reckless.
Mystvearn: Indeed.
Popp: H-How did he...
Mystvearn: I suppose it was
more pointless than reckless.
To sustain wounds for
one as useless as him.
What do you know?!
He's the best
swordsman I know.
He isn't useless!
Mystvearn: His
skills came from
when he was a soldier
for the Dark Army.
Now he doesn't have
enough light or darkness
in him to be
useful with either.
How dare you?
I've... never
neglected my training.
I can use both
sword and spear.
There's no way
I've grown weak.
If anything,
I'm more powerful!
Mystvearn: The
reason is simple.
Your Dark Aura has
diminished in power.
Mystvearn: It once overflowed
with hatred for Avan.
Hatred which I taught
you to control.
But the great King
Vearn saw through you.
He saw the deeply
buried feelings you had
for your master.
Mystvearn: Deep down,
you admired Avan
and were grateful
for his kindness.
Your single-minded
obsession with revenge
made you bury such feelings.
As a result, you possessed
polar opposite energies.
Your body contained both the
Aura of Justice and Darkness.
It made you the
ultimate warrior.
A being wielding the powers
of both good and evil.
That was the secret to
your undying strength.
Mystvearn: Having
succumbed to justice
and using Aura of Light
attacks like Grand Cross,
your power is only
half of what it was.
Whereas my Dark Powers
are uncorrupted.
You lie. All you've
ever done is lie.
Hyunckel...
Mystvearn: It's the truth.
And now I shall
dispose of my mistake.
You won't harm Hyunckel.
I'll fight you!
Maam, wait.
And it's not just
Maam, either.
Don't forget the rest
of us are here as well!
Chiu: That's right!
All of us at once, huh?
Even for you, that's too many.
Mystvearn: Foolish insects.
You can't even see you're
already caught in my web.
Crocodine: What?!
What is this?
It's like a spider's web!
Mystvearn: Dark Puppetry
Aura Decimation Field!
This is Dark
Puppetry Aura Hand!
Crocodine: He's caught
everyone here all at once?!
Hyunckel [thought]:
Unbelievable.
Is this the depth of
Mystvearn's Dark Aura?!
He's unbeatable!
If I'm going to fight,
I'll have to resist him
with my own Dark Power...
Mystvearn: I'm
the only one who can
move within the
Decimation Field.
What will you do, Hyunckel?
Mystvearn: If you
don't believe me,
Why don't you try to
stop this flow of Aura
with your own Dark Power.
C-Curse you...
Curse you...
M-Mystvearn...
Don't do it, Hyunckel!
Hyunckel [thought]:
My wrath is burning...
Burning with all of
my hatred and malice!
You can't!
Hyunckel: The power...
The Dark Power...
Mystvearn: You won't move a
finger with darkness like that.
Hyunckel [thought]: Hate...
Hate him...
Just as I once hated Avan!
Please, just stop!
But, Maam...
I know that we may not make
it out of here alive...
if you keep resisting
what evil you may have...
But I...
I just can't bear to see
those painful eyes ever again!
Maam: If you're
going to fight,
fight with the
power of good...
And I know...
you can win this!
Maam...
Mystvearn: I see you've
stopped resisting.
So be it. You'll
perish together!
Byut Deathstringer!
Mystvearn: What?!
The Decimation Field...
Hyunckel: I almost made the
same foolish mistake again.
But I... I choose...
the Light of Justice!
Narrator: As Sovereign Rock
Castle closes in on the summit,
Popp and the others remain
trapped in Mystvearn's web.
Soon his Dark Aura overwhelms
even Hyunckel's Aura of Light.
But just when it seems
that Papnica is lost,
Dai intervenes with a
brand new sword in hand.
Will he be able to
overcome this peril?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Strongest Sword".